Who has ever tried to get 100% test coverage in one of their code bases?
Raise your hand so I can shame you.
I think it's a fool's errand, right?
I think it's a fool's errand to go after 100% test coverage,
and there are people that vehemently disagree with me.
But I think it makes you end up testing things
that are just not important to be tested.
That being said, I'm going to show you just the greatest and easiest hack
to do 100% test coverage, and it's called Snapshot Testing.
And I show it to you because it's a low effort, low confidence way of testing.
And as soon as you say low confidence, I'm out.
If it's low confidence, then what am I doing?
Why am I doing this?
But they're so easy to write that I'll kind of let you be the judge of it.
Some people do like them.
I think they're kind of discouraged now,
but they're so fast to show that I was like, yeah, might as well.
So we're going to make another file here.
We're going to test which file here.
We're going to test cart.jsx, so cart.test.jsx.
This is just a dumb display component, right?
It doesn't really do very much other than display stuff.
So this is actually the best case scenario for using Snapshot Testing.
The only thing Snapshot Testing does is it renders out the entire component
and says it looks like this, and then it tracks that.
And so if you run that Snapshot Test again,
and it looks different than it did last time you ran it,
then it fails the test.
It says something changed.
You can either update this or something happened that you didn't anticipate.
I'll show you what I mean.
Import, expect, and test from the test.
Import, render from at testing library.
And import cart from dash dash cart.
Test snapshot with nothing in cart.
You can make this async if you want to.
I didn't in my notes, so I won't here.
So you can say const as fragment.
Equals render.
There we go.
Cart, cart.
Okay, and then you're going to say expect as fragment,
which is a function to match Snapshot.
That's it.
That is the entire test that you have to write right there.
So let's dive into what this actually means.
It actually already ran, right?
Because I have my vitest running here,
so it's already run this for the first time.
You'll notice this magical underscore,
underscore snapshots that we didn't create showed up in our folder.
And if you click into this,
you will see this random file that it generates.
Div, cart, cart.
So this is actually kind of what it looks like, right?
When this gets rendered out without anything in the cart.
You do check this in, by the way,
because you want to make sure that even a cross commits,
that it doesn't change over time.
But let's just say I erroneously one day come in here
and I change the name to, well, since I'm 12 years old, fart.
It's going to fail my test, right?
It expected cart and it got fart.
And that's the kind of test that this is, right?
It's just being like between all the various different renders,
everything is looking the same.
I can't believe I said fart professionally.
I am an adult, I promise.
But now if I change it back,
you'll see that the test passed again, right?
It was an honest mistake.
Honest mistake.
Anybody.
So let's say that that becomes our branding now
and that's what we want to do.
And this is really what we want.
You can actually come in here and you press U, right?
And it'll update it.
And so now notice that this is now written out.
So it is written in stone or commits
that this is actually what we intended for it to do.
Okay.
But we should probably change that back so we don't get fired.
So change that to cart, save it.
We'll fail the test, but you can just hit update
and update the snapshot.
So I hope you see what I'm saying when this is low effort.
This was what?
How many lines of code?
Not many.
Like the test itself is literally just two.
Um, but it is low confidence because that's so easy to break, right?
And let's say that you have like components tested
and components tested and components and you have like,
your snapshot will encapsulate everything through all of those.
So if I have like seven layers deep, another component and it changes,
it's going to fail all of the snapshot chests all the way up.
Right.
So this is what I'm saying is like, I don't really use them too much
because they break and they're annoying and they're not telling me anything.
Right.
Like UI changes constantly.
I think we're all familiar that if you, if you're in this course that like,
we're all constantly changing and updating and it's like,
I don't want to update my snapshots every single time.
So unless I have like something that I'm really intending to kind of stay set in stone,
I don't, I don't really use them too much.
Yeah.
I think you got to the core of it, but I was wondering about a use case
for this kind of testing and it seems like if anything,
it seems like a finished feature that should not be impacted by other things.
But not very high level because it's going to be impacted by.
Yeah.
And it's going to be like pretty UI focus because this encapsulates
none of the logic part of it.
Right.
So something like cart where it's really just a dumb display component.
I don't, I still don't know if I endorse it though.
Right.
Headers and footers and nav bars and things feel about right for me.
Could.
The reason I brought up the a hundred percent test coverage is like
this really helps with test coverage.
Right. Because everything gets run very easily.
Right.
Um, so the one place I saw someone doing it that I was like, okay,
that makes some sense to me is they were using it for their API formatters.
So the nice thing about snapshot tests, I'm showing you with react,
but you can use them, use them with any object in JavaScript.
Right.
So I don't know if I let's just write another random test here, test.
And I do something like this and I say, expect.
Um, well, let's describe that test pizza that I had in these pizza of the day.
Let's say I was writing a node service.
And this was the result that I wanted to give back to the user.
So I would say this like to, uh, match snapshot.
So it's going to run that the first time it'll run it.
And now if I look at my snapshots, I think this is kind of compelling because now
you're like your front end and your back end are very in tune with each other.
They have to have the same contract of the API.
The back end is going to send this.
The front end is going to receive this.
This makes sense to me that like we're making sure that our object shapes for
API returns stay in sync.
That makes sense to me.
I'm okay.
I'm okay with that.
This just seems like an okay use of snapshot testing for me matching something like this.
Yeah.
I'm kind of out to be honest with you.
Uh, I was going to show you one more thing.
That's kind of a weird way to do this.
So I'm going to save this.
I think it's going to fail because it's having one less snapshot than it has.
It has an obsolete snapshot.
So I still think you have to say, okay, I'm going to save this.
I still think you have to say update.
There you go.
There we go.
Okay.
So that ran.
Yeah.
So I have smashed snapshot.
There's another way you can do this and it's called inline.
And I'm going to run this and it's going to populate it right there in the file.
Some people prefer that instead of the snapshot files.
I don't know.
Seems weird.
I don't like, I like it the other way better.